## Podman

Podman is a container runtime tool that allows you to manage and run containers on your system. It provides a command-line interface (CLI) for managing containers, images, and container networks.

With Podman, you can:

- Create and manage containers: Podman can, start, stop, and delete containers.

- Build and manage container images: Podman provides commands to build container images from Dockerfiles or existing containers. You can also push and pull images from container registries.

- Manage container networks: Podman allows you to create and manage container networks, enabling containers to communicate with each other and with the host system.

- Secure container operations: Podman provides features to ensure the security of container operations, such as running containers as non-root users and isolating containers from the host system.

Podman is a lightweight alternative to Docker and can be used as a drop-in replacement for Docker in many cases. It is particularly useful in environments where running Docker as a daemon is not desirable or allowed.

# Test-Setup

My Test-Setup

1. **Host System:**
    - Operating System: Debian 12 (Proxmox LXC with privilege)
    - CPU: AMD EPYC™ 9654P (2 cores)
    - RAM: 4GB
    - Storage: 24GB (60k IOPS)

2. **Network Configuration:**
    - IP Address: 172.16.55.66/24

3. **Podman Installation:**
    - Installing podman:
      ```bash
      sudo apt-get install podman
      ```

4. **Container Image Pull:**
    - Pull a image from a registry:
      ```bash
      podman pull hello-world
      ```

5. **Container Creation:**
    - Create a new container using the pulled image:
      ```bash
      podman create --name absolutleyusefulcontainer nginx:latest
      ```

6. **Container Start:**
    - Start the container:
      ```bash
      podman start absolutleyusefulcontainer
      ```

7. **Inspection:**
    - Inspect the container to verify its status and details:
      ```bash
      podman inspect absolutleyusefulcontainer
      ```

8. **Container Stop:**
    - Stop the container:
      ```bash
      podman stop absolutleyusefulcontainer
      ```

9. **Container Deletion:**
    - Delete the container:
      ```bash
      podman rm absolutleyusefulcontainer
      ```
